What is JRuby?
Install JRuby
Why do people use JRuby?
Getting past the GIL
Library Access and Environment Access
Long-Running Process Performance
Why is my JRuby Program Slow?
Inside --dev
Why is my JRuby Program Wrong?
What is TruffleRuby?
Install TruffleRuby
Performance Shoot-out
Failure Of Fork
Test with RubySpy
Jekyll Test 1
Jekyll Test 2
Performance Advice
Update
More Resources
Recently, I made some contributions to the continuous integration process for Jekyll. Jekyll is a static site generator created by GitHub and written in Ruby, and it uses Earthly and GitHub Actions to test that it works with Ruby 2.5, 2.7, 3.0, and JRuby.

The build times looked like this:

Ruby Version	Jekyll CI Time
2.5	8m 31s
2.7	8m 33s
3.0	7m 47s
JRuby	45m 16s
A Representative Jekyll CI Build
The Jekyll CI does lots of things in it that a simple Jekyll site build might not but clearly JRuby was slowing the whole process down by a significant amount, and this surprised me: Wasn’t the entire point of using JRuby, and its new brother TruffleRuby, speed? Why was JRuby so slow?

Even building this blog and using all the tricks I’ve found, the performance of Ruby on the JVM still looks like this:

Runtime	Jekyll Build Time
MRI Ruby 2.7.0	2.64 seconds
Fastest Ruby on JVM Build	25.7 seconds
Building This blog is 10x slower
So why is Jruby slow in these examples? It turns out that the answer is complicated.

What is JRuby?
I was very happy to discover the JRuby project, my favorite programming language running on what’s probably the best virtual machine in the world. - Peter Lind

JRuby is an alternative Ruby interpreter that runs on the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). MRI Ruby, also known as CRuby, is written in C and is the standard interpreter and runtime for Ruby.

Install JRuby
On my mac book, I can switch from the MRI Ruby to JRuby like this.

Install rbenv:

brew install rbenv
List possible install options:

rbenv install -l     
Install:

rbenv install jruby-9.2.16.0
Set a specific project to use JRuby:

rbenv local jruby-9.2.16.0
